blog: Node-RED behind a firewall (#1743)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2024/03/node-red-vpn-flowfuse.md

---
title: Installing and operating Node-RED with a VPN
subtitle: FlowFuse was built to empower Node-RED to run everywhere, also in a VPN
description: FlowFuse was built to empower Node-RED to run everywhere, also in a VPN

> date: 2024-03-06

Author: @knolleary If you need more time with your article, I think we can swap days. This one today, yours tomorrow?

> date: 2024-03-06

Reviewer: If this one is good to go out today, then that works for me.

authors: ["zeger-jan-van-de-weg"]
image: # /blog/2024/03/images/node-red-vpn.png
tags:
    - posts
    - flowfuse
    - node-red
    - vpn
---

> Practitioners using Node-RED often find themselves in a situation where a VPN ([Virtual Private Network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_private_network)) is deployed in their organization. The VPN is a fact of life and is generally not controlled by the same people using Node-RED. Given security regions supreme in Industrial IoT (IIoT), and a VPN offers a lot of benefits, the VPN will be deployed more often instead of less, and as such it’s good to understand how you can get the most out of Node-RED when deployed in a VPN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Practitioners using Node-RED often find themselves in a situation where a VPN ([Virtual Private Network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_private_network)) is deployed in their organization. The VPN is a fact of life and is generally not controlled by the same people using Node-RED. Given security reigns supreme in Industrial IoT (IIoT), and a VPN offers a lot of benefits, the VPN will be deployed more often instead of less, and as such it’s good to understand how you can get the most out of Node-RED when deployed in a VPN.
```

> Practitioners using Node-RED often find themselves in a situation where a VPN ([Virtual Private Network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_private_network)) is deployed in their organization. The VPN is a fact of life and is generally not controlled by the same people using Node-RED. Given security regions supreme in Industrial IoT (IIoT), and a VPN offers a lot of benefits, the VPN will be deployed more often instead of less, and as such it’s good to understand how you can get the most out of Node-RED when deployed in a VPN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Practitioners using Node-RED often find themselves in a situation where a VPN ([Virtual Private Network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_private_network)) is deployed in their organization. The VPN is a fact of life and is generally not controlled by the same people using Node-RED. Given security regions supreme in Industrial IoT (IIoT), and a VPN offers a lot of benefits, the VPN will be deployed more often than not, and as such it’s good to understand how you can get the most out of Node-RED when deployed in a VPN.
```

## Node-RED installation with a VPN

> Generally the normal install procedure for Node-RED requires a connection being made to the NPM servers that host the package. Due to the unaudited nature of NPM, it’s unlikely that IT will agree with a permanent exception for the VPN to have access to it. There’s a couple of actions one can take to install Node-RED anyway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generally, the normal install procedure for Node-RED requires a connection to be made to the NPM servers that host the package. Due to the unaudited nature of NPM, it’s unlikely that IT will agree with a permanent exception for the VPN to have access to it. There are a couple of actions one can take to install Node-RED anyway.
```

> First, ask for a temporary exception. Node-RED is installed in a few minutes, so if there’s a set time schedule an exception can be made there’s a regular method available again through collaboration with the network administrator. The second option is leveraging vendor specific package managers. As these are vetted repositories, it’s not uncommon that these gates in the VPN have been created and opened to you. Some vendors supply repositories for major package managers like `apt-get` on Debian/Ubuntu-based systems, or there’s a marketplace approach to install Node-RED like for example the [Rexroth CtrlX with Node-RED in it](https://developer.community.boschrexroth.com/t5/Store-and-How-to/FlowFuse-Node-RED/ba-p/82135). Lastly you could consider downloading the NPM package beforehand and transferring it to your machine within the network. NPM allows installation of local packages which in turn allows you to create applications with Node-RED. This is generally a shadow IT action, and not recommended unless it’s approved.

Reviewer 3: I think you used the term "Multi-hop"  I don't think VPN will resonate with "gate" if the target audience is OT.
